KABITA CHOUDHARY Abu Shagara, Sharjah, contact: +971-507258853 kabita94.c@gmail.com , L
inkedIn /in/kabita-choudhary
 EDUCATION 
Master’s in Computer Science – (GPA – 9.12 out of 10) Jan 2021- Jan 2023 BITS Pilani, Dubai Campus – Dubai, UAE Bachelor of Technology in Electrical and Electronics – (GPA – 8.5 out of 10) Sep-2011 - July 2015 National Institute of Science and Technology - Odisha, India
 COURSE WORK Machine Learning, Advanced Algorithms, Data structures, Applied Distributed Computing, Data Science Seminar, Linear Algebra, Object-Oriented Programming, Network Theory, Control System, Artificial Intelligence. Research Interest Natural language processing (NLP), Artificial Intelligence, Deep Learning 

PROJECTS & EXPERIENCE BITS Pilani – Dubai 
Published Paper  Deep Learning Based Text Translation and Summarization Tool for Hearing Impaired Using Indian Sign Language in Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Pattern Recognition Applications and Methods (FEB 24, ICPRAM 2023). https://www.scitepress.org/Papers/2023/117282/117282.pdf  Multi-Person Speech Curator for Minutes of Meetings along with Meeting Summarization and Language Translation in Proceedings of The 7th International Conference on Advances in Artificial Intelligence (ICAAI 2023, October 13–15) Academic Projects  Multi-Person Speech Curator for Minutes of Meetings along with Meeting Summarization and Language Translation Aug 2022 – Jan 2022 It refers to a system where we can generate the summary of a meeting from the audio recording of the meeting using automatic speech recognition (ASR) and NLP algorithms. The system can identify and differentiate speakers and generate transcript with time stamp. ASR is used to transcribe the audio of the meeting and then NLP algorithm used to for speaker diarization and then extract the summary from the transcript.  Audio, Video, Text file Translation and summarization tool. It refers to a tool used for generating summary in any language (supports 50 language) from an audio, video, text file. It is hosted on streamlit cloud. https://kabitachoudhary123-summarization-translate6rkuqk.streamlit.app/summary  Implementation of Fashion and Movie Recommendation System Jan 2022 – May 2022 As a part of my independent research study I am currently working on a Machine Learning model which can recommend movies and fashion products.  Bank Churn prediction with Data Mining  Implemented Machine Learning Models: Linear Regression & Decision Tree Jan 2021  Website hosting in Google Cloud 
Platform Aug 2021 ASAFEER EDUCATION TECHNOLOGY – Dubai, UAE Dec 2018 – Aug 2020 Software Engineer 
 Reporting to the Owner and assisting him to day to day basis.  Back Office support for the end user as and when required.  Modify the codes to enhance the current features and customize the user requirements.  Implemented payment gateway for subscription of stories using Paypal. 
INFOSYS LIMITED – Bengaluru, India Oct 2015 – Apr 2018 Software Engineer  Cisco  Designed and developed the web interfaces and services for User Rank module.  Involved in Bug fixing, System Design and Architecture planning.  Understanding the business requirements.  Provided support in maintaining and upgrading existing systems related to CISCO products.  Co-ordinate with business teams to clarify requirements and business needs.  Given responsibilities to act as Subject Matter Expert (SME) while grooming user stories for new features.
  Hotel and Taxi booking system: Implemented hotel and taxi booking system using Python and DB2 to automate certain scenarios: listing and booking rooms in hotels, booking taxis and sending alerts, administrative and user versions of the system. Defence Research and Development Organization - Hyderabad, India June 2014-July 2014 Research Intern: Worked on simulation of speed control model using feedback loop in MATLAB which helped in controlling non-linear speed of brushless DC motors. TECHNICAL SKILLS 
 Programming Languages: Java, Python, Php, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Gradio, Streamlit  Software & Tools: Eclipse, PyCharm, Anaconda, MS Office  Database: MSSQL, SQL, DB2.  Operating System: Linux, Windows and Mac OS. 
AWARDS AND CERTIFICATIONS  Awarded full scholarships for secondary schooling and undergraduate studies.  Certified to level N5 in Japanese Language Proficiency Test.  Conducted workshops on “Robotics” as a core member of Robotics Club at NIST
